Shell scripts in this directory are good hints for experienced linux
users to build and install prerequisites for DANSE simulation software. 
If you 
are not an experienced linux user, you might end up wasting your 
time trying to build those packages. A better solution is to install
the binary DANSE simulation software, which includes all dependencies.

If you are so determined to go on... Congratulations! You are
now starting an exciting adventure :)


1. build and install python if you don't have one installed in
your system. A better solution is to install python using tools
like apt or yum. You really want to build from source? OK. Please
follow install-python.sh. It turns out to be not that difficult...


2, numpy. It is quite easy. It might be installed already. 
Try the following:

 $ python
 >>> import numpy

If it fails, please follow install-numpy.py to install.


3. (Optional), wxPython. That is not too hard either. Just a little too many
commands. Revise and run install-wxPython.sh might be a good idea.


4. matplotlib. That is the hard part... Good luck... Depending
on your platform, you might need to install gtk2-devel (linux) 
or freetype2 (Mac OS X) yourself before you can successfully build
matplotlib. Anyway, revise and follow install-matplotlib.py is a good
idea. Install binary package might be an even better idea...
There are binary packages in modern linux distribution like FC6.


5. HDF5. The tricky part is we need c++ shared library. Look
into install-hdf5.sh and you will find hints how to do that.
!!! Aftre installation, please define environement variable
!!! HDF5_DIR. For example:
!!!
!!!   export HDF5_DIR=/software/hdf5
!!!   export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/software/hdf5/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
!!!
!!! You can use hdf5-envs.sh as an example.
!!! Please add those env vars to your .bashrc
!!! as well.


6. cctbx. Cctbx installation does not follow the 
"configure; make; make install" routine. Please take a look at 
the install-cctbx.sh.
!!! After installation, please revise cctbx-envs.sh to point
!!! CCTBX_ROOT to the installation root of cctbx. Please
!!! source cctbx-envs.sh before you install DANSE simulation software.
!!! Also please source cctbx-envs.sh in your .bashrc file.


7. McStas. Please follow install-McStas.sh to install McStas.
Make sure environement variables in mcstas-envs.sh are defined
in your shell. Add appropriate environement variables.
Use McStas-envs.sh as an example.


Wow, you have done all of them! Congratulations! Now you can build 
ARCS reduction software.


This simulation software also includes the reduction software.
If you need to use reduction software to reduce PHAROS data, 
you also need tool h4toh5. The original
PHAROS data are in HDF4 format. The current ARCS reduction software
only reads HDF5 format, however. This tool can convert PHAROS data file
from HDF4 format to HDF5 format. That tool is not
needed when building ARCS, but you will need them if you want
to use ARCS reduction software to reduce PHAROS data.
To do that, you have to install HDF4 and h4h5tools. Please
follow scripts install-hdf4.sh and install-h4h5tools.sh.
HDF4 source release chokes sometimes and complains about missing 
math functions. You will need to add -lm to solve that.

